ChengDu Chicken

Tasty chicken dish

2.0		large or 3 small boneless, skinless chicken breasts, 14 - 16 ounces total
2.0tbsp		soy sauce
2.0tbsp		rice wine or dry sherry
1.0		pinch of black pepper (optional)
0.25tsp		sesame oil
3.0tsp		cornstarch
2.0tsp		red wine vinegar or rice vinegar (red rice vinegar if possible)
1.0tsp		sugar
1.5tsp		cornstarch mixed in 2 tablespoons water
1.0		green onion (spring onion, scallion)
1.0		garlic clove
2.0		slices ginger
0.5		bunch spinach
1.0		pinch Salt to season spinach
1.0tbsp		hot bean paste
0.5tsp		sesame oil, or to taste
1.0tsp		freshly ground Szechuan pepper, or coriander
5.0tbsp		vegetable oil for stir-frying, or as needed

1. Wash the chicken breasts and pat dry. Remove any fat. Cut into strips and then into 1-inch cubes.
2. Add the marinade ingredients, adding the cornstarch last. Marinate the chicken for 20 minutes.
3. While the chicken is marinating, prepare the sauce and the vegetables. Combine the rice wine or dry sherry, soy sauce, vinegar and sugar. In a separate small bowl, dissolve the cornstarch into the water. Set aside.
4. Wash the green onion and chop into small pieces. Smash and peel the garlic. Chop the garlic and ginger. Wash and drain the spinach.
5. Heat the wok. When the wok is hot, add 1 tablespoon oil. Add the spinach and sprinkle a bit of salt of top. As soon as the spinach wilts (a few seconds), remove it and set aside.
6. Clean out the wok and heat 4 tablespoons oil. Add the chicken cubes, stir-frying continually to keep them from sticking. When the chicken changes color and is nearly 80 percent cooked, remove it from the wok. Leave 2 tablespoons oil in the wok.
7. Add the garlic, ginger and hot bean paste to the wok. Stir-fry briefly until fragrant (about 30 seconds). Add the chicken back into the wok and mix with the hot bean paste.
8. Push the chicken back up to the sides and add the sauce mixture in the middle. Give the cornstarch and water mixture a quick re-stir and mix it in the sauce, stirring quickly to thicken.
9. Mix the sauce with the chicken. Stir in the green onion and sesame oil. Sprinkle the freshly ground Szechuan pepper over top.
10. Serve with the stir-fried spinach.

Prep Time: 41.0mins
Cook Time: 45.0mins
Total time: 86.0mins

Serves: 4

